In the last lecture we explained what are events and what are the least honors and subscribers that
then handle those events.
And what are the benefits of using them inside our applications.
And I've said that we are gonna now create our own events.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So there is always an artisan command for everything.
So if you will run peach bee artisan you can see that maker commands to create an event create least
under so let's create our new event.
So BHP artisan make event comments posted.
Now immediately you can check out that this created a new namespace inside the app directory called
events and there is our event class.
We'll get to that in a second.
Now immediately let's go ahead and create a list enter so P2P artisan make list enter and we can just
create one.
So on this diagram I've shown you that we can create two least stunners and well the assumption was
that each one of them would just do something else.
So this one would just put throttled may on the queue that it has to notify the outer of the blog post.
And this was supposed to put another finger on the cue to notify all the other users but it doesn't
really matter for our example we can just create one listener so notify users about comment that can
be the name of our least in our class.
Alright now you can see this was also created as a class inside the least honors namespace of your app
folder so let's close the terminal and take a look at those classes.
So as I've said the comment posted is just a simple class that holds some data.
There is also a method called the broadcast on which is used for lateral feature called Broadcasting
which we will cover later.
But basically this is about pushing something through web sockets.
So we do not need that.
So let's immediately remove that.
Now what we will need here is we need to store some data that happened so the comment post that event
is about comment that was posted.
So make sure we are the comment from the OP comment namespace here and we will simply in utilize this
comment to be comment.
And also here we have two other public field comment.
So now whenever we dispatch this event
this can be handled by our listener OBS or subscribers so let's let's immediately do that.
So there is an event helper method which as the documentation suggests dispatch on the event and call
the listener.
So this happens immediately.
So as I've said you can make a list and are working on the queue by default.
So this would be run as a background process but normally by default they are handled immediately which
means they are handled throughout this very request.
So how we dispatch an event we create a new instance of comments posted mine that we have a couple of
classes now with this name.
So we have to use the proper one from the up events namespace.
Now this accepts a comment which we have inside the comment variable.
So what this will replace inside this method is we'll get rid of that so we won't be throttling the
mail and then dispatching another command.
We will just dispatch on even something has happened and then handle that in the other place.
Now we have this listener and I as I've said it has the handle method there is optionally our constructor
but we won't need that for anything so we can remove that.
Now as I've said this notify users about comment will only handle one type of event so we will do something
in response to one type of event and this would be comment posted.
So this argument can be typing that so comment posts that mind that it also has to be from the correct
namespace which is up events comment posted and basically what we will do is we'll copy this logic the
throttle email and notify users post was comment a job so let's cut that from this place and move this
to the listener.
So mind that you will need to import all these classes that we have here.
So comment post that mark down
and notify users post was comment at
okay.
Now since that comment is actually from the event.
So this is not a comment.
It is event.
Comment
so let's reformat that because those will be.
This will be actually quite longer here.
So there is even a comment.
This is an actual comment and then the user to notify.
We can read that from the comment.
So this is event comment.
Commendable.
User well user because we need an instance of the user not the user I.D..
So as you remember the second parameter to the product mail is the user to which the email should be
sent and now on the notify users post was commented.
We also use event comment finally let's make sure that we have added all the required imports so property
mail comment posted markdown and notify users post was comment at so now we have an event and at least
an hour so we can also save changes here now.
Also you can see that this can using events can make our controllers shorter and generally controllers
should be as short as possible down like the entry point of your application when you just generally
dispatch and I don't mean dispatch in the sense of dispatching events or job but this is like well as
the name suggests that controller someone does is just pressing some buttons and saying other things
what they should do so you shouldn't be putting too much logic inside the controller and the less logic
is inside controller.
It's always best for the application.
Now we can get rid of those used statements we can see that now the controller has even less dependencies
and it is less tied to other parts of your application.
Now finally what we will have to do is we have to say to Lavell how to handle this event.
So we have comment post that from the events namespace and we are telling Lavell that when this event
happens what has to happen is it should call notify users about comment and this is a list in our class
so also minded those imports.
Here you have to add them or otherwise you will have to specify the fully qualified class names as strings.
And basically that's it.
Now that whenever a comment post that happens and currently it only happens on this controller this
event is being dispatched and then Lavell knows that it has to call this listener so we'll get to the
handle method of this list dinner and those things will happen.
So whatever we have inside this controller now it's much simpler we are.
It's only responsible now for storing this comment on the database and dispatching an event and then
redirecting with some flash message.
So I think you can see that it's quite beneficial to use events.
Finally let's save all this changes and see if it still works and everything is as it should be so let's
move to the terminal.
Let's run the queue Walker because we know that actually handling this event is basically putting something
on the queue like throttled mail or this one that also is sending mails.
Now let's make sure that you are authenticated.
So logging go to any blog post doesn't really matter which one and it's on comment.
And now we should see that something happens on the queue and well exactly it does because this is our
list and are right now which was being called and it basically did whatever we had inside the controller.
So you can even check that by doing D
and I was called in response to event.
Now this would be visible immediately because this happens inside the controller.
So hello.
Try again.
And there it is.
I was called in response to an event.
So this happened during the request itself now.
Alternatively you can also move that you can create listeners that will immediately be cued jobs the
same as we did with emails.
You remember that we've added this shoot queue as an interface that was implemented by the class and
then immediately this was put by default on a queue and had to be processed by the queue worker.
So let's see some more examples in the next lecture.